FDUP(1)                          User Commands                         FDUP(1)



NAME
       fdup - find duplicates


SYNOPSIS
       fdup [mode] [option...]  directory...


DESCRIPTION
       fdup  traverses the supplied directories and finds file with equal con‐
       tents. fdup outputs statistics to  stderr(3)  while  processing  files.
       fdup will not follow symbolic links it encounters.


OPTIONS
       This  utility  has four modes of operation. These are selected with the
       options -B, -H, -L and -S. If none of  these  options  is  given,  fdup
       behaves  as  if  -S was selected. If more than one mode of operation is
       given, only the last mode that was passed counts.


       -B     Turn files with equal contents into btrfs(8) lightweight  copies
              of  each  other. A lightweight or COW copy shares the underlying
              disk space with the original file until you change it,  but  has
              no  other connections to the original file. This mode is prefer‐
              able where applicable. This option  only  works  on  Linux  with
              files on btrfs file systems and implies -b d.


       -H     Turn  each  group of files with equal contents into hardlinks to
              one file. This implies -b dl.


       -L     List groups of files with equal  contents,  separated  by  blank
              files.


       -S     Similar to -H, turn each group of files with equal contents into
              symbolic links to one file. The file that is not turned  into  a
              symbolic link is arbitrarily chosen.


       -b specifier...
              Control  file matching behavior. specifier is one or more of the
              following specifiers. By default, fdup considers  all  cases  as
              duplicate that can be detected as distinct files with the speci‐
              fiers below.


              c      Files with different creation times are  considered  dis‐
                     tinct

              d      Files on different devices are considered distinct

              g      Files owned by different groups are considered distinct

              l      Hardlinks to the same file are considered distinct

              m      Files  with  different  modification times are considered
                     distinct

              p      Files with different permissions are considered distinct

              u      Files owned by different users are considered distinct


       -h     Print a brief help.


       -p     Preserve permissions, ownership, modification and access  times.
              If  -p  is  provided  and  fdup fails to correctly assign one of
              these attributes, no files are changed  and  fdup  aborts.  This
              differs  from  the behavior without -p, in that otherwise only a
              warning is printed and fdup  keeps  going,  possibly  clobbering
              attributes  of  the  file.  fdup attempts to preserve attributes
              regardless of -p. Please notice that -p has no effect when  used
              with  -L for obvious reasons. Only access and modification times
              are preserved when used with -S.


       -s n[,m]
              Restrict file size when looking for duplicates. If used  in  the
              form  -s n, fdup ignores all files that are less than n bytes in
              size.  If used in the form -s n,m, fdup ignores all  files  that
              are  less than n or more than m bytes in size. If you don't want
              to specify a lower  boundary,  use  -s  0,m.  By  default,  fdup
              behaves as if -s 0 has been given.

              Suffixes  K,  M,  G,  T,  P  and  E can be used to specify 1024,
              1024*1024, 1024*1024*1024 etc. bytes.

              This option can speed up operation if you are scanning  a  large
              amount  of  small files but don't care about duplicates in them,
              or if you don't want fdup to scan through very large files  that
              are known not to be duplicates.


       -x     Stay on one file system. This applies to each supplied directory
              individually.


EXIT STATUS
       fdup terminates with an exit status of 0 on  success.  If  one  of  the
       operations  fdup performs fails, its exit status is 1. If fdup does not
       recognize one of the command line options it was called with, it termi‐
       nates with an exit status of 2.


BUGS
       When  using the option -H, fdup is known to have problems when too many
       files are considered equal.

       Please file bugs at <https://github.com/fuzxxl/fdup/issues>.


COPYRIGHT
       This program, its source code and this  manpage  is  licensed  under  a
       2-clause BSD license. See file COPYING for details.


AUTHOR
       Written by Robert Clausecker <fuzxxl@gmail.com>.



Robert Clausecker                 August 2013                          FDUP(1)
